{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-576

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri-576
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 1)	Telomerase is an enzyme that is expressed in germ-line cells but not in somatic cells. Why would an organism want to regulate the expression of telomerase differently in somatic and germ line cells?\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri-576
\cf0 \
Germ line cells keep replicating indefinitely, as they are the cells that have the potential to grow into an offspring organism. Therefore, it is important that telomerase is active in order to repair the telomeres in germ cells, because if regions on the 3\'92 end of the chromosome were lost every replication event, and germ line cells went through many replication events, eventually the genetic information of the germ line cell would be damaged. Somatic cells only replicate a set number of times, and telomeres are structured such that a certain number of replications can occur without any damage to important genetic information. Thus, because somatic cells only replicate a set number of times, telomerase doesn\'92t need to be active to repair the telomeres, because the telomeres can absorb the damage from a few replications without disturbing important genetic information.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-576
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri-576
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 2)	Focusing on the Huang et al. paper first, outline the question the authors were aiming to address and what strategies they used to address this question.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri-576
\cf0 \
The authors are trying to determine whether or not two mutations in the promoter sequence for telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) represent tumorgenic mechanisms. That is, they want to determine whether two distinct somatic mutations in the promotor region for TERT are drivers in initiating cancer. In order to answer this question, they first determined that these mutations (C228T and C250T) are fairly common in melanoma cells. They determined, by performing PCR on the promoter sequence for TERT and then Sanger sequencing the region, that C228T or C250T occur in 71% of melanomas. Huang et al. surmised that these mutations may cause the promoter sequence to also contain a binding site for the ETS transcription factors, therefore increasing TERT expression. They used a reporter assay system to test this hypothesis, by cloning the relevant (wild-type or mutant) TERT core promoter upstream of the firefly luciferase gene. It was determined that the mutant promoter sequences increased transcriptional activity. Then, Huang et al. determined whether or not these TERT promoter mutations occurred in other cancer types. They discovered, by examining sequencing data, that such a mutation occurred in a few other types of cancer.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-576
\cf0 \
\
\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri-576
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 3)	Why might most mutations described to date in tumors be restricted to protein-coding genes and/or splice junctions? What does \'91outside of protein-coding regions\'92 mean?\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri-576
\cf0 \
If a mutation is \'93outside of protein coding regions\'94 that means that the mutation does not occur in a region of DNA that gets transcribed into mRNA, and then translated into a protein. It is likely that most mutations described to date in tumors occur in protein-coding genes and/or splice junctions because mutations in these regions have obvious effects on protein activity. That is, mutations in these regions cause the actual protein to be mutated, and it\'92s easy to see why mutating a tumor suppressor gene (for example, p53) could cause that gene to lose its function, and thusly lose its ability to inhibit cancer.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-576
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri-576
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 4)	What are promoter mutations? Given what you know about transcriptional regulation in eukaryotes, what might the result of a promoter mutation be in terms of protein binding and/or gene expression?\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri-576
\cf0 \
Promoter mutations are mutations in the DNA sequence of a promoter region. A promoter region is a region upstream of a gene where a transcription factor binds. These transcription factors can either increase gene expression (promoter) or inhibit gene expression (suppressor). If a promoter sequence is mutated, then the effect could go one of two ways. If the promoter sequence is mutated in a way that prevents certain promoters from binding to the sequence, then the expression of the gene regulated by the promoter could not be regulated by any promoters, and thus would be expressed at a steady output regardless of cellular conditions. If the promoter sequence were mutated in such a way that caused more promoters to bind to the region, then the expression of the gene in question would be regulated by promoters which had not typically been associated with the gene, causing expression of the gene to behave erratically with response to cellular conditions.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-576
\cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri-576
\ls5\ilvl0\cf0 5)	The authors report the identification of promoter mutations from whole genome sequencing. \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri-576
\cf0 a) What samples and techniques do the authors use to verify these mutations?\
\
Huang used PCR and Sanger sequencing on the promoter region in question in order to verify the mutations. Horn used high throughput sequencing.\
\
b) If you were interested in knowing whether these mutations corresponded to 
\i TERT
\i0  gene expression differences, what strategies might you employ and what samples would you need?\
\
You would want to use some sort of reporter gene construct, in a similar manner to Huang et al. One possible strategy could be to clone both mutant and non-mutant promoter sequences upstream of a reporter gene that could be assayed for, and then assay the mutant-promoter and non-mutant-promoter cells in order to determine if there was a difference in the expression of the reporter gene.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-576
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\ri-576
\cf0 6) Reporter constructs were used in different human cell lines. Why? \
\
	Reporter constructs were used in different human cell lines in order to determine that the promoter sequences with the mutation C228T or C250T really did invoke more transcription than any sort of wild type promoter sequence.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li360\fi360\ri-576
\cf0 a) Were these constructs transcriptional or translational reporters?\
\
They were transcriptional reporters: the promoter sequences of interest were inserted upstream of the reporter gene, and the levels of transcription of the reporter gene were measured. There was no structural alteration to the reporter gene, which would\'92ve been the case had this been a case of translational reporting.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri-576
\cf0 b) If TERT translational reporters are used, where is TERT likely found in the cell?\
\
TERT is likely to be found in the cell in regions where it is not easy to access the protein. One possible example of this is the cell nucleus.\
\
c) Suppose the authors found lower levels of reporter from a TERT transcriptional reporter than from a TERT translational reporter. \
	i) What does this indicate in terms of TERT RNA and protein levels?\
\
	This means that there are more TERT RNA strands then there are TERT proteins, indicating that not every strand of TERT RNA gets translated into a protein.\
\
	ii) Given the mechanisms we have learned in class, propose two reasons for this result.\
\
	One possible mechanism is siRNA interference: when too much of the TERT RNA is present in the cell, they form double stranded RNA. Half of this double stranded mRNA is degraded by RISC, and the other half binds to target mRNA (another TERT RNA strand), and targets that strand for degradation as well. Another possible explanation is micro RNA interference: there are genes in the cell\'92s DNA that code microRNA strands which bind to TERT RNA strands and target them for degradation.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri-576
\cf0 7) Huang et al. suggest that ETS transcription factors bind to the variant sequences in the TERT promoter. You decide to test this hypothesis directly using a method called chromatin immunoprecipitation, which ultimately allows comparison of the chromatin bound to the ETS transcription factors and chromatin from a control sample. \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri-576
\cf0 \
a) What molecular technique might you use to determine the quantitative differences in DNA between these two samples? \
\
You could perform PCR and then Sanger sequencing, or any sort of next-generation sequencing technique, such as Illumina Solexa\'92s sequencing method, or 454 pyrosequencing. This would allow you to sequence the DNA of the two samples, and then differences could be observed.\
\
b) Suggest one technique that you could use to achieve the same aim as in a), but with the goal of detecting fewer, more, or longer DNA sequences (whichever applies).\
\
If you wanted to detect fewer DNA sequences you could use Sanger sequencing. If you wanted to detect more DNA sequences you could use Illumina Solexa\'92s sequencing. If you wanted to detect longer sequences you could use 454 Pyrosequencing.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-576
\cf0 \
\
8) Now skim the Horn et al. paper, outline the question the authors were aiming to address and what strategies they used to address this question.\
\
The authors are trying to find a disease-segregating germline mutation in the promoter sequence of TERT that segregates concomitantly with melanoma. The hope is that determining germline mutations that cosegregate with disease in cancer-prone families can provide insights into the mechanizations of sporadically arising cancers. Horn et al. performed high throughput sequencing on members of a cancer-prone family, and revealed germ-line mutations that seemed to correlate with melanoma.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri-576
\cf0 a) The authors start by evaluating a family pedigree for melanoma. Based on this pedigree, what type of inheritance likely explains it?\
\
It looks like an X-linked dominant trait with incomplete penetrance.\
\
b) An initial linkage analysis provided the authors with the chromosomal location of sequence changes associated with melanoma. The authors then performed high-throughput sequencing of this region. Why might the authors have done this instead of performing whole genome sequencing of these 8 individuals?\
\
High throughput sequencing is more accurate when sequencing smaller DNA regions. Additionally, if the authors had determined that a certain region of a certain chromosome was the likely location of sequence changes associated with melanoma, then mutations in that region are the ones that are going to affect the study, thusly sequencing the entire genome of these 8 individuals would\'92ve been unnecessary, time consuming and wasteful.\
\
c) How did the authors verify their genomic data?\
\
Genomic data that resulted from high-throughput sequencing was validated by Sanger sequencing, which is slower and more expensive, but less prone to errors.\
\
d) Three intronic variants were also detected as unique in affected versus unaffected individuals. Propose an explanation for how these intronic variants might lead to changes in 
\i TERT
\i0  gene expression. How might you test your hypothesis?\
\
Intronic variants could lead to changes in epigenetic regulation; for example, if an intron was mutated such that some non-cytosine base pairs flipped to cytosine, then the region could become more methylated, possibly preventing gene expression. One way to test this would to be to see if the mutated intron had significantly more cytosine base pairs than the non-mutated intron.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-576
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri-576
\cf0 e) The authors identify a change in the sequence from T>G, which results in a CCTGAA>CCGGAA sequences that creates a new potential binding site for the TCF transcription factors. \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi720\ri-576
\cf0 i) Notice that TG>CG inside of this sequence. Would this change likely lead to epigenetic regulation? Why or why not?\
\
It\'92s really hard to say. Maybe it would cause more methylation? Maybe it would lead to acetylation? I don\'92t really know.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-576
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi720\ri-576
\cf0 ii) Your friend studies transcription factors and performs chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by PCR to determine if TCF transcription factors bind to the consensus sequence CCGGAA found in the TERT promoter of affected individuals. Your friend does not detect binding. Explain to your friend why consensus sequences do not guarantee that a particular factor will bind to them.\
\
One case where a transcription factor cannot bind to the consensus sequence occurs in the Lac Operon, where the promoter cannot bind to the promoter sequence if the repressor is bound to the cap site. So, there is at least one case where a transcription factor can\'92t bind to a promoter sequence even when they share a consensus sequence.\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-576
\cf0 \
9) The authors suggest BRAFTCF (Elk1, Elk4) TERT. If you had mouse lines lacking BRAF, what experiment might you perform to test this hypothesis?\
\
\pard\tx4120\pardeftab720\ri-576
\cf0 Take the mouse cells lacking BRAF, and clone in the mutant TERT promoter sequences and see if this leads to cancer. If BRAF is necessary for the production of TCF, then the lack of BRAF will mean that the TCF aren\'92t active, meaning that transcription of TERT won\'92t spike, and the cells won\'92t develop cancer.  This result indicates that BRAF is not necessary for TCF. If the cells do develop cancer, than it looks like the mutant promoter sequences are stimulating the transcription of TERT anyway, indicating that BRAF is not necessary for TCF.\
}